Company Leave Policy:
All leave must be supported with a VALID reason. Please inform your supervisor or Manager of your leave date(s) before applying via e-Leave.
Please key in the reason before submitting your leave application.
Note: Half day leave is from 9am -1pm (AM) or 2pm – 6pm(PM).
**Minimum period to apply leave is half a day (0.5 day).
(1) No paid leave/ sick leave for probationary period (usually first 3 months). For unpaid leave taken after payroll is processed, it will be deducted in the next month's pay.
(2) Leave application to be submitted at least 1 week in advance for approval. 
For leave application of 1 week and above, please apply your leave 3 months (or earlier) in advance so that it can be approved/ disapproved.
 
This is for capacity planning as if too many members in the team are going on leave together, the other members will not be allowed to go on leave during those period.
 
Also, if you’re not coming to office due to sick leave, urgent leave etc, please inform your department manager and Senior HR & Operations Manager / Jenny in advance.
 
Kindly take note that leave request may not be approved all the time.
 (3) For sick leave, please submit your sick leave application after you have come back to work. Claims will not be allowed if an MC is not provided by a Singapore registered doctor, and there is no medical receipt submitted. Maximum per claim is $30.00 per time, limited to S$240 per year.
Please submit your MC and receipt to Finance Dept by 21st of each month.

Each of us will be given a MHC physical card that you need to bring when you visit any of the listed clinic. Please take note that the clinic doesn’t accept your NRIC, so don’t forget to bring your card when you visit the clinic.
There are 400 clinics listed Islandwide. Please strictly use the Singapore clinics (as per attached). We wouldn’t accept any claim and medical leave from TCM and any other clinics apart from the list.
Any annual utilization of more than 50% medical leave allowed days, will drastically impact or forgo annual Kpi and salary increments entirely for worse case scenarios, especially for staff who worked less than 5 years in Verztec. 
 *** All employees are encouraged to only apply for half (0.5) day Sick Leave for Medical Appointment or Prenatal check-up.
 Half (0.5) day sick leave is deemed sufficient for the purpose of routine check.
(4) For urgent leave, please submit the leave application with a valid reason for leave approval.
(5) For all kinds of leave, e.g Off-in-lieu, Birthday Leave, please also submit your application through this system for approval.
(6) For Birthday leave, please utilize it on your birthday month/ actual birthday.
For new staff under probation, you can apply it after 2 months from join date since it may disrupt your training program if you take leave during that period.
(7) Please clear all your leave by the end of your anniversary year to avoid forfeit of Annual/ Off days. Leave encashment is not allowed. Please space out your leave and check with your department Manager/ Supervisor to avoid clashing of leaves with team members.
(8) We take into account 'No Pay Leave' taken in calculating employee's bonus.  Staff should avoid taking more than 7 days NPL in a year. Too many sick leave taken (more than 50%) will also affect your annual appraisal and bonus.
Leave days are as follows for FULL TIME employees: 
0 - 3 years = 14 days
3.01 - 5 years = 16 days 
5.01 - 10 years = 18 days
more than 10 years = 25 days
Please do not take last minute leave and you are reminded to instruct someone to cover your duties in case of emergency.
Go to Webmail to update your auto-responder message and activate it. Deactivate it when you're back in the office.
(9) We do have Bereavement Leave of 2 days a year - for Immediate Family Members only. This is for the death of a member of your immediate family. Please submit the scanned death certificate for record purpose.
 The immediate family includes: Parent, parent in law, siblings, children, spouse and grandparents
This does not apply to uncle, Auntie, Cousins etc..
(10) We DO NOT allow Annual leave, or OFF in lieu days to offset your Notice Period. Please check the Notice Period indicated in your employment agreement.
(11) For MARRIAGE leave, you can only apply it for actual ROM or on your actual wedding day (1 week before or after), and only entitled to 2 days. It is to be applicable for the first marriage, granted only once and only for official marriages. Approval is for confirmed employees who show proof of marriage and leave has to be continuous.
(12) Please note that Verztec is using the anniversary period to calculate your leave and entitlement. That will be 12 months period from the date you join us, and reset on the 1st day of the month you join Verztec.
For e.g if you join Verztec on 10th OCT, all current year leave entitlement will end on 30th SEPT. On 1st OCT, the leave entitlement will be reset as the new employment year leave. Also, the leave dates you applied should be before 30th September to qualify for the current year leave entitlement. We only allow maximum of 4 days Annual leave to be carried forward on a case by case basis, so please spread out your annual leave days and clear as much as possible before expiry. If you apply advanced leave on 15th September for leave dates after OCTOBER, it will be utilized under the new employment year's annual leave entitlement. The new leave balance for the 'next' anniversary year will be re-calculated from 1st of that month.
 (13) OFF in LIEU for public holidays that fall on a Saturday (non working day): The payback OFF IN LIEU will be added to your e-leave with effective date close to the actual public holiday. Staff will be informed by email once that had been added.
 Festive Holiday Notice
** Only Chinese New Year Eve and 31st DECEMBER will be a half day for all staff EXCEPT when these fall on a weekend.
There will be no half day off if the dates fall on a weekend.
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Leave Application for Vacation or Personal Matters
 
1.         Please note that before you decide to book your plane tickets or tour packages, it is your duty to check with your head of your team/manager for approval first and then subsequently apply officially on e-leave for management approval. On E-leave you can also view very clearly your other colleagues in the same department who are taking leave. There should be as little overlap on leave dates as much as possible with people within your own dept.
Please do not take it for granted that management will approve as there may be some other reasons, so please only book tickets / or make any arrangements only after you get full approval from the management (after you checked with your manager/head of your team).
 
2. For Mentors/Managers/Leaders, please ensure that there should at least 1 senior person in your team to cover your duties if you’re going for a long-leave. This is to ensure good continuity of your team, your duties and also the on-going client projects that no-deadlines are missed due to our own staff leave reasons.
 
3. Leave is applied on a first-come first serve basis. So if no one in your team is taking leave on specified dates, you will have the first approval opportunity. However if there are team members taking leave on specified dates and you wish to take, then you would have a 50/50 chance in having the leave approved, especially if there are wide date span of overlaps. In that case, we would like to ask you to choose another date/period for your leave.
 
 Unused leave will be forfeited
Please note that leave encashment WILL NOT be allowed at all levels anymore.
Due to company’s budgeting reasons, we are unable to encash leave anymore.
Unused leave will be forfeited. You may only carry forward only a maximum of 4 days Annual leave in a year.
Please plan your leave utilization properly among your team and inform your team manager about it in advance. 
 
Compulsory attendence for Year End Staff Appreciation and Christmas Lunch:
Staff must apply one day annual leave if they are unable to attend the Xmas party with valid reasons - e.g on Maternity Leave, Paternity Leave, holiday period (using Annual leaves) applied in advance.
For those who are sick, they should produce a Medical Certificate.
 
