URA Field Exploration Template (download a copy for your team) Name: Class/Team Name: Date of Visit: Instructions -The field exploration is a compulsory as class time has been carved out for you to do so. Failure to complete will affect your Class Participation marks. -Please post the completed template on your private Team Channel for your tutor to note that you have complete the Field Exploration. Although you conduct the field exploration as a team, all team members should complete their own field exploration and post on your team channel to ensure the data you collect is rich. -Post a picture of yourself at the field site as evidence that you have completed the field exploration. State your chosen Driving Question (if you have chosen DQ 1 – state stakeholder and focus) To better facilitate your visit, you may wish to download QUESTEON, an app developed to better engage visitors of the City Gallery. QR code can be found at the entrance - this is not compulsory. <|image_start|>template_ura_1__img
1.png<|image_end|> 🌇
1. General Impressions What is your first impression of the URA building and the Singapore City Gallery? What emotions or thoughts did the space evoke? 🖼️
2. Key Exhibits & Takeaways List 2 exhibits or sections that stood out to you. For each, explain what it was and why it was impactful (especially in relation to your selected question). Exhibit/ Section Name Description & Purpose Relevance to Driving Question 💡
3. Ideas & Inspiration What specific ideas or solutions did the exhibits spark for your project topic? Did you notice any innovative strategies (e.g. digital tools, design and layout of the exhibits, models) that can be applied to your project? 🧱
4. Observations on Visitor Engagement Were there features that made the exhibits especially accessible or inaccessible? Explain how and why. How did signage, interactivity, or layout affect your understanding or interest? 🧠
5. Reflection & Next Steps How has this visit influenced or changed your thinking on the driving question? What further research or ideas do you want to explore after this field exploration? 📸
6. Optional Visuals Attach or paste photos/sketches of: Inspiring exhibits Design elements or details you want to remember Notes or diagrams you made during the visit